Issue #93 (#115)
Snapp-Mobile/ios-newsletter: docs/_issues/2026-05-22-issue-93.md

### [Training an LLM in Swift, Part 1: Taking matrix multiplication from Gflop/s to Tflop/s](https://www.cocoawithlove.com/blog/matrix-multiplications-swift.html)

[Matt Gallagher](https://github.com/mattgallagher){: .author}

In this detailed exploration, Matt Gallagher takes a handwritten matrix multiplication implementation in Swift and optimizes it from a slow baseline to over 1 Tflop/s. He walks through various techniques, including using `MutableSpan` to avoid COW overhead, leveraging the Numerics library for fused-multiply-add, and employing `InlineArray` for stack allocation. The journey culminates in the use of Apple Silicon's AMX unit and Metal GPU kernels, demonstrating that Swift can match or even exceed C's performance for high-compute tasks in our apps.

## Data

### [SwiftData Tutorial: Swift Data Storage for iOS Apps](https://bugfender.com/blog/swift-data/)

[Aleix Ventayol](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ventayol/){: .author}

> Thisutorial introduces SwiftData, Apple's Swift-native persistence framework, highlighting its ability to replace the boilerplate of Core Data with a declarative `@Model` approach. The guide covers essential CRUD operations, advanced querying with predicates, and managing relational data, while providing a comparison with other storage options like SQLite and Realm. By integrating tightly with SwiftUI, SwiftData allows developers to focus on feature delivery rather than persistence plumbing in our apps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial introduces SwiftData, Apple's Swift-native persistence framework, highlighting its ability to replace the boilerplate of Core Data with a declarative `@Model` approach. The guide covers essential CRUD operations, advanced querying with predicates, and managing relational data, while providing a comparison with other storage options like SQLite and Realm. By integrating tightly with SwiftUI, SwiftData allows developers to focus on feature delivery rather than persistence plumbing in our apps.
```
